content/Resources/Trans-Resources.md, before:

+++
title = 'Trans Resources'
date = 2024-04-11T09:08:03-04:00
+++
## General Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
These resources cover a lot of ground. They don't focus on one thing, or they deal with more general concerns.

*   [LGBT Near Me](https://www.lgbtnearme.org/)

    * This site helps you locate Trans and other Queer resources in your area.

*   [That's Gender Dysphoria FYI](https://genderdysphoria.fyi/)

    * This resource is aimed at questioning trans folks. Does a good job providing an inside look at the trans experience.

*   [Transfem Science](https://transfemscience.org/)

    * Provides good summaries of the scientific literature concerning MTF transitions.

*   [A Self Defense Study Guide for Trans Women and Gender Non-Conforming/Nonbinary AMAB Folks](https://www.silversprocket.net/2021/09/13/a-self-defense-study-guide-for-trans-women-and-gender-non-conforming-nonbinary-amab-folks/)

    * A guide for self defense based on common scenarios faced by trans and non binary people.

*   [Queering the Map](https://www.queeringthemap.com/)

    * A map with a compilation of queer experiences submitted anonymously on a map. Wherever you are, find people with experiences like yours.

*   [Trans Lifeline](https://www.translifeline.org/)

    * Emotional support hotline and microgrants organization by and for trans people.

*   [Safe and sound: a renter-friendly guide to home repair](https://search.worldcat.org/title/Safe-and-sound-:-a-renter-friendly-guide-to-home-repair/oclc/1393439855/)

    * A book that walks through getting an apartment, working with management, and fixing issues that come up, written by a trans women with an emphasis on challenges faced by minorities

## Medical Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These resources help connect trans people with the health care they need.

*   [Erin's Informed Consent HRT map of the US](https://www.google.com/maps/d/viewer?mid=1DxyOTw8dI8n96BHFF2JVUMK7bXsRKtzA&usp=sharing)

    * A map of Informed Consent Trans Healthcare providers in the United States.

*   [TransHealthcare.org](https://www.transhealthcare.org/)

    * A website for finding Surgeons to perform a variety of surgeries for trans people.

*   [TransHealthProject.org](https://transhealthproject.org/)

    * A resource for navigating insurance barriers to gender affirming care.

*   [Gender Affirmative Letter Access Project](https://thegalap.org/)

    * A project to help connect trans people with letters for Gender Affirming Care. Often useful for navigating insurance as well as legal name changes.

*   [Plume](https://getplume.co/)

    * A telehealth service for accessing HRT. Accepts some insurance plans or requires direct payment in the form of a subscription for their services.

*   [QueerMed](https://queermed.com/)

    * A telehealth service for accessing HRT. Accepts some insurance plans.

*   [Allegro Medical](https://www.allegromedical.com/)

    * A medical supply store which allows for the purchase of syringes without a prescription, as well as other medical goods.

*   [Rainbow Alphabet Collective](https://www.rainbowalphabetcollective.org/)

    * A website that contains a list of WPATH compliant healthcare and mental care providers

*   [Cost Plus Drug Company](https://costplusdrugs.com/)

    * A low cost store to get prescription medications without insurance.

*   [Good RX](https://www.goodrx.com/)

    * A website that allows comparative shopping for medications.

## Surgical Resources
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provides resources for transgender people connecting to surgical healthcare. Inclusion is not endorsement of surgical performance.

*   [Phallo.net](https://www.phallo.net/)

    * Informational site on Phalloplasty. Overviews of different surgery techniques and technologies.

*   [MTFsurgery.net](https://www.mtfsurgery.net/)

    * Informational site on MTF Surgeries. Overviews of different surgery techniques and technologies.

*   [Metoidioplasty.net](https://www.metoidioplasty.net/)

    * Informational site on Metoidioplasty. Overviews of different surgery techniques and technologies.

*   [Mexico Transgender Center Gender Nullification](https://mexicotransgendercenter.us/service/orchiectomy-nullification/)

    * Provides the most detailed overview of Gender Nullification Surgery. Contains some graphic medical photos.

*   [AMAB-to-neutrois GRS](https://beesbuzz.biz/articles/5195-nullification-surgery)

    * Provides a first person account of Gender Nullification Surgery.

*   [How To Treat Top Surgery Scars (According To Science!) | FTMFAQ](https://youtu.be/3u0Icd2BW7o?si=xqcxKvgKfwxLy3Ev)

    * Provides a detailed look at scar care information for trans masculine people.

*   [Caring For Someone After a Double Mastectomy (Top Surgery)](https://www.rainbowalphabetcollective.org/post/caring-for-someone-after-a-double-mastectomy-top-surgery)

    * Provides instructions for care of trans masculine people after top surgery.

*   [How To Prep Your House Before Having Surgery](ttps://www.lelaburris.com/prep-house-surgery/)

    * Provides instructions for care of trans masculine people after top surgery.

## Funding Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Transition can be expensive.To help those who can't afford it, these organizations help people access gender affirming care.

*   [Plume HRT Access Fund](https://getplume.co/hrt-access-fund/)

    * Plume's Grant Fund for accessing HRT

*   [Jim Collins Foundation](https://jimcollinsfoundation.org/)

    * Helps Trans people to fund gender-affirming surgeries that they otherwise could not afford.

*   [Point Of Pride HRT Access Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/hrt-access-fund)
    
    * Fund to help trans people with financial need to access telehealth HRT.
    
*   [Dr Rizi's Trans Surgery Grant](https://rizitimane.com/trans-surgery-scholarship-application/)

    * Fund to help trans people access gender affirming surgeries that they otherwise could not afford.

*   [Point Of Pride Trans Surgery Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/annual-transgender-surgery-fund)

    * Fund to help trans people access gender affirming surgeries that they otherwise could not afford.

*   [Genderbands Transition Grants](https://www.genderbands.org/grants)

    * Fund to help trans people access gender affirming care and legal resources of various types that they otherwise could not afford.

## Voice Training Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Find your authentic voice with these resources for vocal training.

*   [Trans Voice Lessons](https://www.youtube.com/@TransVoiceLessons)

    * Youtube channel that teaches trans people to direct their own vocal training.

*   [Alyssavt](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/alyssavt)

    * Provides text and audio instructions for trans people to direct their own vocal training. Also provides a community through discord for people undergoing voice training to help each other as well as private lessons.

*   [Trans Vocal Training](https://transvocaltraining.com/book-online/)

    * Provides Group and one on one vocal training, as well as a self study course.

*   [Your Lessons Now](https://www.yourlessonsnow.com/)

    * Provides Group and one on one vocal training.

*   [Voice Tools](https://devextras.com/voicetools//)

    * Helps track pitch and intonation and provides guidance in moving them into a feminine or masculine range. Does not provide guidance on resonance which is required for effective voice training.

*   [Voice Resource Repository](https://wiki.sumianvoice.com/)

    * A collaborative wiki for explaining voice training concepts.

## Style and Hair Removal Resources
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Making adjustments to your style can be overwhelming. Here are some resources to help!

*   [Strands For Trans](https://strandsfortrans.org/)

    * A website for finding trans friendly hair stylists.

*   [Enfemme Style](https://enfemmestyle.com/)

    * A clothing brand for trans women and feminine people.

*   [Bra Size Measurement](https://www.realsimple.com/beauty-fashion/clothing/shopping-guide/how-to-measure-bra-size)

    * For people who have been on HRT for a while, going bra shopping can be a lot. This is a quick guide for anyone to get their size at home.

*   [How to Shave](https://www.aad.org/public/everyday-care/skin-care-basics/hair/how-to-shave)

    * A quick guide on how to shave. This should be generally applicable to every part of the body, but there are more specific guides out there for particular parts of the body.

*   [Types of Razors](https://www.shaverater.com/learn/types-of-razors/)

    * A rundown of the different types of razors. One note, I don't ever recommend using a straight razor as it is very easy to injure yourself with little benefit.

*   [Leaf Shave](https://leafshave.com/)

    * A hybrid between a cartridge razor and a safety razor. My weapon of choice.

*   [How to Epilate](https://www.healthline.com/health/epilator#how-to-use)

    * A guide on how to epilate. If you have the pain tolerance for it, its a fantastic option for longer lasting hair removal compared to shaving.

*   [Robert Welsh](https://www.youtube.com/@RobertWelsh)

    * A guide on how to do makeup from a professional artist, covers picking products and fundamental techniques.

## Trans Sex Education Resources
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A cause close to my heart. Taking ownership of your sexuality is a daunting task, especially for transgender people. These resources can help you navigate your own unique sexuality. Some content may be 18+, please follow site policy and local laws.

*   [Trans Sex by Lucie Fielding](https://luciefielding.com/book)

    * One of my favorite books. Written for clinicians, but providing enough guidance and clear language for everyday people to understand and explore themselves. This book guides readers to understand their own unique relationship with their body

*   [Fucking Trans Women by Mira Bellwether](https://transreads.org/fucking-trans-women/)

    * This Zine guides trans women through alternative ways to explore their bodies, as well as providing guidance on how to communicate with partners. Also provides guidance on genital anatomy.

*   [Trans Sex Zine](https://transsexzine.com/)

    * A Zine exploring several perspectives on trans sexuality. Useful for inspiration in combination with other resources.

*   [The Back Pocket Guide for Trans Men and the Men who Dig Them](https://www.rainbowhealthontario.ca/resource-library/primed-the-back-pocket-guide-for-trans-men-and-the-men-who-dig-them/)

    * A sexual health guide for trans men and the gay men who want to enter a relationship with them.

*   [Sexplanations with Dr. Lindsey Doe: Trans Sex](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RK8fv7i6v5A)

    * The episode of Sexplanations on Transgender Sexuality. Contains useful ideas for partners. This channel in general is a great resource for eclectic topics in sex education.

*   [Bedsider](https://www.bedsider.org/)

    * A informational resource on birth control and STI protection methods and their advantages and drawbacks. Note that gender affirming hormone therapy is **not** birth control.

Commit message:

add a description to trans resources

content/Resources/Trans-Resources.md, after:

+++
title = 'Trans Resources'
date = 2024-04-11T09:08:03-04:00
description = 'A list of helpful resources to help transgender people navigate issues that they commonly face.'
+++
## General Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
These resources cover a lot of ground. They don't focus on one thing, or they deal with more general concerns.

*   [LGBT Near Me](https://www.lgbtnearme.org/)

    * This site helps you locate Trans and other Queer resources in your area.

*   [That's Gender Dysphoria FYI](https://genderdysphoria.fyi/)

    * This resource is aimed at questioning trans folks. Does a good job providing an inside look at the trans experience.

*   [Transfem Science](https://transfemscience.org/)

    * Provides good summaries of the scientific literature concerning MTF transitions.

*   [A Self Defense Study Guide for Trans Women and Gender Non-Conforming/Nonbinary AMAB Folks](https://www.silversprocket.net/2021/09/13/a-self-defense-study-guide-for-trans-women-and-gender-non-conforming-nonbinary-amab-folks/)

    * A guide for self defense based on common scenarios faced by trans and non binary people.

*   [Queering the Map](https://www.queeringthemap.com/)

    * A map with a compilation of queer experiences submitted anonymously on a map. Wherever you are, find people with experiences like yours.

*   [Trans Lifeline](https://www.translifeline.org/)

    * Emotional support hotline and microgrants organization by and for trans people.

*   [Safe and sound: a renter-friendly guide to home repair](https://search.worldcat.org/title/Safe-and-sound-:-a-renter-friendly-guide-to-home-repair/oclc/1393439855/)

    * A book that walks through getting an apartment, working with management, and fixing issues that come up, written by a trans women with an emphasis on challenges faced by minorities

## Medical Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These resources help connect trans people with the health care they need.

*   [Erin's Informed Consent HRT map of the US](https://www.google.com/maps/d/viewer?mid=1DxyOTw8dI8n96BHFF2JVUMK7bXsRKtzA&usp=sharing)

    * A map of Informed Consent Trans Healthcare providers in the United States.

*   [TransHealthcare.org](https://www.transhealthcare.org/)

    * A website for finding Surgeons to perform a variety of surgeries for trans people.

*   [TransHealthProject.org](https://transhealthproject.org/)

    * A resource for navigating insurance barriers to gender affirming care.

*   [Gender Affirmative Letter Access Project](https://thegalap.org/)

    * A project to help connect trans people with letters for Gender Affirming Care. Often useful for navigating insurance as well as legal name changes.

*   [Plume](https://getplume.co/)

    * A telehealth service for accessing HRT. Accepts some insurance plans or requires direct payment in the form of a subscription for their services.

*   [QueerMed](https://queermed.com/)

    * A telehealth service for accessing HRT. Accepts some insurance plans.

*   [Allegro Medical](https://www.allegromedical.com/)

    * A medical supply store which allows for the purchase of syringes without a prescription, as well as other medical goods.

*   [Rainbow Alphabet Collective](https://www.rainbowalphabetcollective.org/)

    * A website that contains a list of WPATH compliant healthcare and mental care providers

*   [Cost Plus Drug Company](https://costplusdrugs.com/)

    * A low cost store to get prescription medications without insurance.

*   [Good RX](https://www.goodrx.com/)

    * A website that allows comparative shopping for medications.

## Surgical Resources
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provides resources for transgender people connecting to surgical healthcare. Inclusion is not endorsement of surgical performance.

*   [Phallo.net](https://www.phallo.net/)

    * Informational site on Phalloplasty. Overviews of different surgery techniques and technologies.

*   [MTFsurgery.net](https://www.mtfsurgery.net/)

    * Informational site on MTF Surgeries. Overviews of different surgery techniques and technologies.

*   [Metoidioplasty.net](https://www.metoidioplasty.net/)

    * Informational site on Metoidioplasty. Overviews of different surgery techniques and technologies.

*   [Mexico Transgender Center Gender Nullification](https://mexicotransgendercenter.us/service/orchiectomy-nullification/)

    * Provides the most detailed overview of Gender Nullification Surgery. Contains some graphic medical photos.

*   [AMAB-to-neutrois GRS](https://beesbuzz.biz/articles/5195-nullification-surgery)

    * Provides a first person account of Gender Nullification Surgery.

*   [How To Treat Top Surgery Scars (According To Science!) | FTMFAQ](https://youtu.be/3u0Icd2BW7o?si=xqcxKvgKfwxLy3Ev)

    * Provides a detailed look at scar care information for trans masculine people.

*   [Caring For Someone After a Double Mastectomy (Top Surgery)](https://www.rainbowalphabetcollective.org/post/caring-for-someone-after-a-double-mastectomy-top-surgery)

    * Provides instructions for care of trans masculine people after top surgery.

*   [How To Prep Your House Before Having Surgery](ttps://www.lelaburris.com/prep-house-surgery/)

    * Provides instructions for care of trans masculine people after top surgery.

## Funding Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Transition can be expensive.To help those who can't afford it, these organizations help people access gender affirming care.

*   [Plume HRT Access Fund](https://getplume.co/hrt-access-fund/)

    * Plume's Grant Fund for accessing HRT

*   [Jim Collins Foundation](https://jimcollinsfoundation.org/)

    * Helps Trans people to fund gender-affirming surgeries that they otherwise could not afford.

*   [Point Of Pride HRT Access Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/hrt-access-fund)
    
    * Fund to help trans people with financial need to access telehealth HRT.
    
*   [Dr Rizi's Trans Surgery Grant](https://rizitimane.com/trans-surgery-scholarship-application/)

    * Fund to help trans people access gender affirming surgeries that they otherwise could not afford.

*   [Point Of Pride Trans Surgery Fund](https://www.pointofpride.org/annual-transgender-surgery-fund)

    * Fund to help trans people access gender affirming surgeries that they otherwise could not afford.

*   [Genderbands Transition Grants](https://www.genderbands.org/grants)

    * Fund to help trans people access gender affirming care and legal resources of various types that they otherwise could not afford.

## Voice Training Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Find your authentic voice with these resources for vocal training.

*   [Trans Voice Lessons](https://www.youtube.com/@TransVoiceLessons)

    * Youtube channel that teaches trans people to direct their own vocal training.

*   [Alyssavt](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/alyssavt)

    * Provides text and audio instructions for trans people to direct their own vocal training. Also provides a community through discord for people undergoing voice training to help each other as well as private lessons.

*   [Trans Vocal Training](https://transvocaltraining.com/book-online/)

    * Provides Group and one on one vocal training, as well as a self study course.

*   [Your Lessons Now](https://www.yourlessonsnow.com/)

    * Provides Group and one on one vocal training.

*   [Voice Tools](https://devextras.com/voicetools//)

    * Helps track pitch and intonation and provides guidance in moving them into a feminine or masculine range. Does not provide guidance on resonance which is required for effective voice training.

*   [Voice Resource Repository](https://wiki.sumianvoice.com/)

    * A collaborative wiki for explaining voice training concepts.

## Style and Hair Removal Resources
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Making adjustments to your style can be overwhelming. Here are some resources to help!

*   [Strands For Trans](https://strandsfortrans.org/)

    * A website for finding trans friendly hair stylists.

*   [Enfemme Style](https://enfemmestyle.com/)

    * A clothing brand for trans women and feminine people.

*   [Bra Size Measurement](https://www.realsimple.com/beauty-fashion/clothing/shopping-guide/how-to-measure-bra-size)

    * For people who have been on HRT for a while, going bra shopping can be a lot. This is a quick guide for anyone to get their size at home.

*   [How to Shave](https://www.aad.org/public/everyday-care/skin-care-basics/hair/how-to-shave)

    * A quick guide on how to shave. This should be generally applicable to every part of the body, but there are more specific guides out there for particular parts of the body.

*   [Types of Razors](https://www.shaverater.com/learn/types-of-razors/)

    * A rundown of the different types of razors. One note, I don't ever recommend using a straight razor as it is very easy to injure yourself with little benefit.

*   [Leaf Shave](https://leafshave.com/)

    * A hybrid between a cartridge razor and a safety razor. My weapon of choice.

*   [How to Epilate](https://www.healthline.com/health/epilator#how-to-use)

    * A guide on how to epilate. If you have the pain tolerance for it, its a fantastic option for longer lasting hair removal compared to shaving.

*   [Robert Welsh](https://www.youtube.com/@RobertWelsh)

    * A guide on how to do makeup from a professional artist, covers picking products and fundamental techniques.

## Trans Sex Education Resources
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A cause close to my heart. Taking ownership of your sexuality is a daunting task, especially for transgender people. These resources can help you navigate your own unique sexuality. Some content may be 18+, please follow site policy and local laws.

*   [Trans Sex by Lucie Fielding](https://luciefielding.com/book)

    * One of my favorite books. Written for clinicians, but providing enough guidance and clear language for everyday people to understand and explore themselves. This book guides readers to understand their own unique relationship with their body

*   [Fucking Trans Women by Mira Bellwether](https://transreads.org/fucking-trans-women/)

    * This Zine guides trans women through alternative ways to explore their bodies, as well as providing guidance on how to communicate with partners. Also provides guidance on genital anatomy.

*   [Trans Sex Zine](https://transsexzine.com/)

    * A Zine exploring several perspectives on trans sexuality. Useful for inspiration in combination with other resources.

*   [The Back Pocket Guide for Trans Men and the Men who Dig Them](https://www.rainbowhealthontario.ca/resource-library/primed-the-back-pocket-guide-for-trans-men-and-the-men-who-dig-them/)

    * A sexual health guide for trans men and the gay men who want to enter a relationship with them.

*   [Sexplanations with Dr. Lindsey Doe: Trans Sex](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RK8fv7i6v5A)

    * The episode of Sexplanations on Transgender Sexuality. Contains useful ideas for partners. This channel in general is a great resource for eclectic topics in sex education.

*   [Bedsider](https://www.bedsider.org/)

    * A informational resource on birth control and STI protection methods and their advantages and drawbacks. Note that gender affirming hormone therapy is **not** birth control.
